In this video you're going to learn about custom conversions and standard events and how you can use
them to optimize campaigns for conversions.
Remember that once you've got the Facebook pixel installed you can use it not only to create custom
audiences but also to optimize campaigns for conversions.
So if we come back into our ads create tool you can see here that there is an option for a marketing
objective for conversions.
And the reason that you would want to use this over just traffic is say you were sending traffic to
your website under this marketing objective.
You're not really optimizing those people to say sign up to your email list or to buy a particular product.
Whereas if you choose the convergence marketing objective and you've got the pixels set up then Facebook
is going to optimize and really help you meet that marketing objective rather than just traffic.
So it's a small shift but it's extremely important.
And if you want to drive more convergence is a little bit more work that you need to do with the Facebook
pixel.
The best way to probably go through this is come into the ads create two unbiased click on conversions
a walk through the process.
So I selected that as my marketing objective and now I can see here that I'm choosing a Web site where
I want to drive my conversions and now I need to really set up a conversion.
I need to tell Facebook what is the outcome that I want them to really drive with my Facebook ads so
I can just click on set up conversions here and here we see the two methods in order to do this.
And the first is custom conversions and the second is standard events.
So why are there two different options here.
What are the differences between them.
What we can see appear in this article.
It kind of breaks it down pretty well.
So custom conversions.
There is no extra code required.
They're usually much easier to set up if you're not comfortable working with code.
Then I would just recommend you use custom conversions.
However you have to just be careful in terms of setting them up and there aren't as much flexibility
and accuracy.
If you use them but by far and for most people this is more than sufficient to set it up with standard
events.
There are some advantages you can customize parameters aggregate reporting and they're much more compatible
with dynamic product ads which custom conversions are not.
So that's a big difference in terms of e-commerce businesses you're going to be using the standard events
for almost everybody else I think you'll be fine with the custom conversions.
So if we come back into the odds create to set up for this conversion tracking Let us just start with
the custom conversions the easier option to set this whole custom conversion tracking up.
So what we can do here is put in the URL of the page where people lie and when they have completed the
conversion.
So that could be the check add page or the purchase complete page.
In my case here I'm going to give you an example of measuring and optimizing a campaign her e-mail sign
ups.
So for my web site I have a thank you page that people reach once they have it.
My web site.
So for example they could click to download this PTF once they've gone through that process.
They're going to end up on this page here.
Thank you download.
And I want to measure how many people hit this page because that's really the outcome that I want people
to do if they've reached this page.
I know I've already got three e-mail address and that's a new lead for me so I can use it in terms of
the world contains.
And that covers the top page plus all the variations of it.
I could also pick a specific you are l if I wanted in terms of the category and I'm just going to put
this as a lead and click next.
Now I can enter a name for this custom conversion and set a custom conversion value as well for an e-mail
sign up I'm not going to put down a value but for other product pages you might want to do that.
And then I can really set that up.
Now I've already got set up some just not going to go in there but if I click now down into this you
can see the e-mail sign up button.
And that's really the conversion that I'm driving towards.
Now one thing that you do want to do is when you've set up this custom conversion you can come back
in to your odds manager open all the tools you can click on custom conversions here and you just want
to make sure that this conversion is active and that it is tracking correctly.
Now let's go back and quickly talk about the other option for setting up conversion tracking which is
using these standard events.
Now as we said you probably aren't going to need to use this if you're in e-commerce.
And we want to do dynamic product that's that type of stuff.
The scenario here is slightly different.
You need to set up this tracking on your Web site.
And these additional pieces of code.
So for example let us say that we have this same code here for the same objective which is to track
the leads I need to take this piece of code and put it on my web site.
So for example here is the page him mail for the same clanky page that I showed you if I wanted to add
in this tracking code I'd come down as to where it says Facebook pixel code and then I'd come down underneath
where it says here have BQ track and I'd pop this new current code in under neath it and that would
allow me to track conversions of people reaching this page.
So it's the same process as we saw before and just repeated over various different things that you want
to track and different pages that you want.
So I'll include these links in the resources section of this video so you can look at it in more detail
if you do want to set that up so that you understand that in order to track conversions with Facebook
ads you need to set up either custom conversions or standard events.
Go ahead and set it up for yourself following the steps that you've learnt in this video.
And don't forget to really check that everything is working by coming back into your custom conversions
tab in your ads manager.